hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
today.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
after 4 years Two Hosts and 65 episodes
of the Neo News Today podcast we are
widening the scope of our show to
provide listeners with more diverse
insights from across the cryptocurrency
and blockchain industry in an
increasingly multi-chain world
blockchain is a rich tapestry of
networks projects and Advocates all
contributing in their own way to bring
the smart economy to life in many ways
the biggest issues of today are agnostic
and are not confined to any particular
chain or technology questions of
Regulatory Compliance consumer or
national adoption Dow governance
Financial access to all privacy
security these topics and many more are
applicable to all who wish to see the
blockchain industry grow regular
listeners of the nnt Pod can still
expect to hear insightful discussions
with thought leaders and Builders from
within the Neo ecosystem however you'll
also be introduced to many interesting
guests from The Wider blockchain
industry and we're confident you will
enjoy learning from what they have to
share we're aiming to release episodes
of the smart economy podcast in
miniseries that focus on single topics
but explore them from a range of
different perspectives our first series
concentrates on decentralized autonomous
organizations each of our guests from
the first four episodes have
participated in Dows in varying ways our
first guest is the pseudonymous John
shapeshift who I'll introduce in a
moment in future episodes you will also
hear from Gil Machado and Claude Mueller
longtime developers in the Neo ecosystem
who recently built the infrastructure
for Grant shars a DA for Distributing
Neo funding you'll also hear from yev
mushnik a lawyer based in Colorado who
helps incorporate Dows internationally
and is an active member in unique
humanitarian and employee benefits Dows
and you'll also hear from Andrew readen
an ethereum developer and founding
member of pleaser Dow a collective of
individuals who purchase and preserve
unique artifacts of cultural relevance
this series digs deep into each person's
background and their various experiences
participating in Dows just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that our host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given given episode with that said enjoy
the smart economy podcast Dow
Series this episode of the smart economy
podcast is part of the inaugural series
focusing on decentralized autonomous
organizations better known as dows dows
can take different forms around unique
causes and this Series highlights that
by talking with some of the best Minds
in the space in this episode I chat with
John shapeshift the co-founder and
former COO of the shapeshift
decentralized exchange last year the
company made relatively groundbreaking
news when they announced plans to shut
down the company's corporate structure
and replace it with a Dao in this
conversation John and I discussed shape
shift's background his lessons learned
over the years how the team chose the
technology to build upon and dowo
governance and communication processes I
really enjoyed this conversation with
John and I hope you will
too John welcome to the smart economy
podcast you are our first guest since
rebranding from the previous EP show
which was called Neo News Today podcast
so welcome and thank you for joining
yeah thank you for having me glad to be
here we've hung out in person before but
I don't know if I've ever shared the
story with you that the whole reason I
write for Neo news today and I'm in the
space right now is because I randomly
traded ethereum and Bitcoin for a bunch
of coins on shapeshift in
2017 and Neo was one of those coins and
it opened up a rabbit hole after I
downloaded it and stored it on a private
wallet so this is a really cool
interview to have because it's coming
full circle and shapeshift was kind of
like my entrance into
decentralized blockchain ecosystems
that's awesome yeah I haven't heard that
story from you I've heard of a lot of
people over the years who who got their
first exposure not just to like some
altcoin but to like crypto and Bitcoin
itself through shape ship which was
always interesting to hear that like
that was their first entry point
particularly because when we were first
building shape shift we always saw it as
like this is for people who already know
what crypto is and we were always
surprised that the amount of people that
came in that like it was like their
first experience because that was never
really the
design yeah I mean I had just bought a
ledger and I was opening it up I like I
don't know if I should admit this but I
wrote my my seed phrase wrong many years
later I learned that before the hard
way and um yeah I swapped for Neo and
stored it on a local wallet and Neo has
this dual chain token model where if you
hold Neo you get passively distributed
gas and I had no idea and seeing that
little droplet of gas set me down a
rabbit hole and uh a few months later I
was writing for the website I write for
now which has been almost four and a
half years I've been writing for this
website so without sounding too cheesy
or cliche like if it wasn't for
shapeshift I don't know if I'd be here
today doing what I do now so I'm really
honored to be able to chat with you
because shapes shift has meant a lot to
me in my crypto Journey well that's
great and uh I'm glad we helped you get
down the rabbit hole something tells me
you'd be here either way but have to
take a little credit so just to give our
listeners a little bit of backgrounds
we're migrating from a Neo Focus podcast
to a more protocol and blockchain
agnostic focused podcast so suffice to
say our audience might not have ever
heard of who you are or what shapeshift
is so could you just give us the quick
elevator pitch of why you started
shapeshift in
2014 and kind of what it was meant to be
and and then we'll we'll go a little
further into what happened in recent
years sure um yeah so my name is John I
am formerly the COO and CPO at
shapeshift um and co-founder we started
shapeshift uh Eric and I Eric ores back
in 2014 and the original goal was to
essentially just be like a vending
machine for crypto to make it super easy
to just put in one digital asset and get
another one like what we were
experiencing in the ear like back in
2014 when crypto was really just Bitcoin
at that time Bitcoin and a few other
coins is that if you wanted to get one
of these other digital assets it could
be a really kind of annoying lengthy
friction full process and we kind of had
the realization of these are all
digitally native assets this shouldn't
be that hard it should be as simple is I
just send one and receive the other and
nothing else and all you should need is
your wallet so we built a service based
around that and we got a little bit of
you know great feedback and good
Traction in those early days and then it
really started to blow up kind of to
late 2016 into early 20177 especially
when ethereum launched and that really
opened up you know a whole new world of
interesting other crypto assets that
before then hadn't existed you know
there were some before then but ethereum
definitely kind of brought that more to
mainstream attention or maybe not even
mainstream is not the right word more to
even just crypto people's attention
because before that really most cryp
people just cared about Bitcoin so we
made it easy to swap from one digital
asset to another and do that really
easily and do it all in a non-custodial
way without ever holding user funds
because our other inspiration at the
time is we kind of built this thing in
the in the wake of the mount GX hat and
it was a stark reminder early on in
crypto about why you know crypto
empowers you to hold your own keys and
trusting your assets to a centralized
parties such as a centralized exchange
could be very dangerous um Mount dox was
a prime example of that and then that
was you know another reason that we
built shapes shift time is we wanted to
demonstrate if you were building
natively with crypto in mind that you
could build things that you couldn't
buil in the traditional space or the
traditional economy and you could build
it in such a way that the company
couldn't take the user funds even if it
wanted to and that was how we built
everything so yeah that was kind of the
early background and shape shift you
know existed for quite a while in that
form up until uh last year where we I'm
sure was I'm sure we'll talk about we
decided to decentralize away the entire
entity and and become a da before we
jump into that though you you've been
around the blockchain and crypto space
for eight years now and I don't know if
you can really condense this what I'm
about to ask you into three separate
segments but I just wanted to hear kind
of maybe if it's not your your insight
into the industry maybe just uh how you
guys were thinking about shapeshift in
these three different time periods so
the first being 2014 to 2017 like your
launch the Ico crate
and then 2018 to 2020 which was
basically the bare market after the 2017
craze and kind of when shapeshift had to
do a little reorganizing to make sure it
was on the right side of the of of any
legal issues and then from 2020 until
today so like what are maybe just
highlevel insights into those three
different time frames uh from your
perspective yeah great and I yeah and I
actually got involved in the crypto a
little bit even before shape shift back
in like 2012 so it's been about a decade
for me now which is pretty crazy to say
because a decade in crypto time makes me
feel like an old man basically yeah so
that that's a good way to kind of break
up those epochs so I would say
shapeshift existed through multiple bare
and bull cycles I think it we were kind
of unique and like we were one of the
companies to really exist through
multiple Cycles a lot of these companies
even today even some of the big ones
today have not existed for more than
like one full cycle so it's definitely
been an interesting perspective and
vantage point about how things have
changed over that time so I would say in
the kind of 2014 to let's say 2017
period I'll kind of break it up like
that like basically pre pre2 2017 crypto
was really Bitcoin and like our thesis
at the time was just simply that Bitcoin
is was at least at the time the most
obvious clear important digital asset it
was one that was starting to gain some
steam and that was having things built
around it and and you know that's
probably most of us consider ourselves
bitcoiners myself included and crypto
wasn't even really a term that anyone
used but at the same time we kind of
just became started to become clear to
us at least to Eric and I that there was
going to be a world of multiple digital
assets we didn't know if there'd be 10
digital assets or a hundred or thousands
but the kind of thesis was there's going
to be more than one and people are going
to want to easily trade between them and
so we were kind of the the fir one of
the first to have that kind of
multi-chain thesis of like there will be
more than one blockchain there will be
more than one digital asset people will
want to change between them and that
will be really important um that was
well before multi-chain thesis was like
a term in crypto now people talk about
that a lot but back then I think a lot
of people thought we were a little nuts
and that was kind of our focus and so we
were building during that time with that
focus of just building for this world
that where we thought the world was
going for this world of multiple digital
assets and you know we were gaining good
traction but we were still very small
just a couple people in a basement
basically a basement of our you know not
not like one of our basements but our
office was in the basement of an office
building and yeah we were a small team
building on this having lots of fun but
you know building with very Cutting Edge
crypto technology that was breaking all
the time so it was a lot of fun but you
know things didn't really get that crazy
in that time and that was just kind of
our thesis that I think like I said
before late 26 and kind of early 2017
kind of marks the next Epoch that was
actually when we were doing our series a
fundraise you know we had done some some
earlier fundraising uh you know a lot of
it was self-funded by Eric at the time
and then we did a seed round with you
know a couple early investors like kcg
and things like that but then we did a
seed round which was like our first big
sorry our series a round our first big
actual raise for the company and that
happened we were working on that like
all through the second half of 2016 it
finally finalized in early 2017 but that
was like a real SLO like crypto
companies were having a really hard time
raising any sort of capital at that time
not a ton of people especially in the VC
space really believed in crypto it still
seemed like this weird Fringe thing so
it didn't work that that well and we got
a lot of news we eventually found the
right Consortium of people to that
actually wanted to invest in us um being
led by early bird a a German VC fund and
we closed that round in early 2017 and
at that time we had these projections to
our investors about like oh we think you
know our volume will go like this you
know maybe if we're lucky we'll increase
by you know 10% you know month over
month type of thing like relatively
conservative but reasonable projections
for like a gross Stage Company and then
like literally like a month after our um
fund raise the you know ethereum had
launched about 6 months before back in
2016 something like that
and the 2017 Bull Run started to occur
so that kind of shifted us into our next
phase and instantly all of our
projections were totally just destroyed
as all of our volume started increasing
shape shift started getting really big
and people started using it mainly
because it was the main one of the
easiest ways that you could get ethereum
and a lot of people were getting really
interested in ethereum and the Ico craze
was starting to happen and you need to e
do any of these things so um and then we
started adding some of these erc20
tokens and so that really just started
to blow things up and it started to be
like wow our whole like multi-chain
thesis thing this like tokenized world
that ethereum brought us has really
started to show us that we were we were
right on that and that people starting
to realize that and then U shape shift
and we were integrating into all sorts
of wallets and all these sorts of things
and so that was a really crazy time
where we grew massively fast our volumes
and our service and we were trying to
basically hold the ship together as
things were buckling under the weight of
this this giant scaling problem we were
facing both on the blockchain level like
the networks themselves needing to scale
and our systems needing to scale and
that was really Nuts And We Grew From
less than 10 people at the beginning of
2017 to more than like 130 people by
like the end of 2017 something like that
120 I don't know but it was it was just
a massive growth so that was that was
kind of that Epoch up till maybe mid
2018 um and then it became clear by the
time we're in mid 2018 that we were on
the downtrend of one of these cycles and
even at this points you know so we're
mid 2018 a lot of people had just got
into crypto in 2017 but we at shape
shift had already especially people like
me and Eric who' been around you pr-
shape ship had already seen something
like three cryp bu Cycles bull bear
Cycles in Bitcoin at that time that had
gotten increasingly more mainstream but
also less volatile over time even though
they were still very volatile at this
time and so we kind of saw the trend of
where this was going and we we knew we
kind of basically needed to build
through the bare Market into whenever
the next bull market was going to be at
the same time we were dealing the
regulatory winds were shifting and we
basically we went through our kind of
next e pocket shape shift which is where
we had to implement kyc through after
various many ways of paying lawyers
millions of dollars to figure out what
the what we needed to do here that was
unfortunate it basically gutted the vast
majority of our business and we kind of
had to build fresh through the through
the be cycle and that even led to like
early 2019 you know after this huge
growth we had to do a layoff because the
bear the bare Market taken into effect
there were a lot of crypto companies
doing layoffs then we had to shrink our
staff we had to make sure we were going
to survive for the long run and we were
kind of building a new product at that
point which was a more like full
non-custodial crypto platform and not
just an exchange you know just an easy
wallet to wallet exchange which is what
we had before we kind of weathered that
storm that was probably one of the
hardest parts really for that I ever
experienced in crypto and it's certainly
a shape shift but really just in crypto
that that 2018 be market up until until
basically early 2020 was quite the SLO
um lots of people building lots of fud
just was a hard thing to get through I
think fortunately we had the experience
of building through bare markets before
so it wasn't it wasn't like we didn't
know there was a light at the end of the
tunnel we we obviously believe there was
but still hard while you're in it and
especially after gutting as much of our
business as we did because of kyc and
all those things so fast forward to 2020
and we basically started seeing the rise
of you know Defi and decentralized
exchanges and you know all these crazy
yields going on all these things and
started getting really interested in
these
phenomenons and we basically made the
decision that we were going to replace
our regulated activity so like our main
regulated activity at the time was that
we were the counterparty on trades other
people we held the inventory when
someone traded with shapeshift when they
sent us Bitcoin we sent them our ium Etc
so our goal was to remove that regulated
activity by starting to Source all of
our trading uh directly through
decentralized exchanges this was you
know kind of before it was clear that
these things were big enough to handle
that but it was clear to us that they
were getting big enough and that it was
time to move that direction and we kind
of saw a lot of these dexas as
continuing the ethos that we started at
chapia you know non-custodial the
ability to trade these things with very
little friction and easily and so we
really kind of bought into that that
thesis is like a continuation of our
multi-chain noncustodial thesis and we
thought that was the right time to do
that and so in I think it was either
late 2020 early 2021 we released our
first uh Dex integration um originally
through ZX so basically all ethereum
token trades started going through there
and then in April we announced our
integration with thorchain right when
they launched their main net which
basically allowed us to do cross chain
trades and at that point no more trading
went through shape shift directly it all
went centralized exchanges and that was
kind of the kind of last major thing we
did as a company and then a few months
later we actually announced back in
summer of just last year 2021 that we
were going to actually decentralize away
the entire entity and open- Source our
software and become AAP and that's kind
of where we are today is the company has
been mostly wound down and the Dow is
living every day and like all the
interesting development all the open
source code being built out in the open
and it's really a community-driven
product at this point run by the shape
shift Dow and that's been honestly some
of the most fun I've had in crypto in my
last decade it's just been watching this
Dow and this community build itself and
grow and everything cool that's
happening there on a daily basis has
just been super awesome so you know
that's kind of The Abridged you know
story of shape shift from my perspective
in some of those EPO we went through but
yeah it's been quite the ride and I'm
sure there's there's a lot more detail
in any of those specific spe ific
instances but kind of gives a quick
overview it's actually pretty funny I
had a handful of like intro questions
that I wanted to ask and you kind of
nailed each one of them as you were
going through that I remember when
shapeshift announced that it was going
to do kyc and AML and of course a lot of
the the blockchain industry kind of turn
their backs on shapeshift you know these
guys are resting on their Laurels
they're they're changing their ideology
they don't really care about
decentralization and you know I was in
Colorado at that time and I remember
just understanding the risk that you
guys were taking as the leaders of a
corporate structure that could
potentially be facing any potential
legal issues so I think I remember
speaking with one of your employees that
your user base dropped by something like
99% after you guys went kyc AML and uh
I'm proud to say that during 2019 and
2020 I was only buying Bitcoin and
ethereum through shapeshift uh storing
my keep keys so I was one of the 1% that
stayed
faithful well thank you very much for
doing that but I also don't blame anyone
who left because you know honestly they
had less they had more frictionless
experiences being offered by competitors
that didn't require K that were you know
located in other countries that weren't
as worried about the regulatory
situation so like I totally understand
why a bunch of those users but I also
appreciate of course folks like you who
stuck around and US shape shift during
that time and that was one of the great
things about our our move to the Dex is
and our decentralization effort is we
got a lot of those people who really
still love shape shift coming back and
like realizing that you know we were
still true to our ethos I think one of
my favorites was people used to blast
Eric on Twitter saying you know oh you
just did this because you're a banker
shill and you sold out and it was such a
funny funny way to think about it it's
like we we literally gutted 99% of our
business and people would tell us we
were selling out like selling out to who
like like who who is making the money
here because it's certainly not us you
know and and I guess uh timing is
everything especially when when you run
and own your own business and defi
summer of 2020 you guys were privy you
recognized what was available with these
defi protocols and then you know that's
when we started seeing things like urine
really start to take off and so we're
starting to see this robust sort of
comprehensive nature of various
different dii protocols and I remember
reading about shapeshift going towards
these uh using these protocols in the
back end and kind of just like giving an
internal like woot like you guys made it
and here we are and and you get to come
full circle and like you you weathered
the storm so I think that that's one
really cool part about what's happening
with the decorporation the
decentralization of the shapeshift
corporate structure but this is a series
on this smart economy podcast series is
on Dows so I want to make sure that we
do cover kind of like basic
from the various different subject
matter experts we have so if you could
just like tell me what a dow is in your
words and maybe the different types of
dows that could be a nice kind of
springboard into the next portion of
this conversation yeah happy to do that
Dows are a very big topic and they're
very hard to Define in my opinion like
people like to throw out these like very
simple you know on its Bas level Dao
stands for decentralized autonomous
organization but what does that mean it
means a lot of different things in a lot
of contexts and no two Dows are really
the same and everyone's a little bit
different I've heard some definitions
that I kind of like which is that a dow
is really just like an internet native
organization you know it's not a legal
entity but it's a it's an organization
of people across the Globe coming
together for some purpose you know Bas a
community that for forms around some
sort of set of shared goals usually with
some sort of shared incentives you know
brought about by a to the Token of the
Dow that one's a solid uh interpretation
but I still think it's a little bit
anachronistic actually because I think
we're having trouble parsing what Dows
are even in crypto because they're such
a New Concept and there's so much
happening with them and they're evolving
so fast and we just don't have the
language for it yet I think that a
better definition of a DA is really like
they are a Community Driven and
Community owned internet-based economy
so it's not just that they're an
organization they're like their own
economic units some of them have more
familiarity like kind of being kind of
like a company some of them are more
like a club some of them are more like
you know something else like just a
collective of artists that like to work
and talk together and some of them you
know I think the best kind of broad
definition is they are really like they
are economies you know they are
economies that are that create products
they are economies that have people
interact with that economy they are
economies that like the community runs
basically what the monetary policy of
that economy is and how it works all
these things and we're still very early
in this experimentation with Dows and so
I think to some degree we're all trying
to figure out what they are but the
important thing is they are they are
ways that people around the globe in a
decentralized way get together and
coordinate on some sort of shared set of
goals with a shared incentive that is at
its base level I think what a what a dow
is today and that may not be what a dow
even is a year from now but it is
basically what it is today yeah and
that's something that I think shape
shift is doing that's we're talking
about a trailblazing section of a
trailblazing industry you know Dows
within cryptocurrency but then
shapeshift is decorpatio
so while you guys are researching and
learning about how to create this Dow
like entity what were some other
projects or other Dows that you guys
were pulling inspiration from or
learning
what to do and what not to do while you
guys were kind of beginning to go down
this process yeah when we first started
looking into this idea of like you know
should we actually decentralize with
company what does that mean how do we do
this you know what are Dows in the
industry at this point we were mainly
looking at some of these D5 protocols um
and how they were developing so urine
was was you already mentioned J Ur was a
great example of an early project that
quickly became a dow still one of the
strongest Dows out there there I think
other you know some of these lending
protocols the A and compounds of the
world those were definitely cool and
some of our Inspirations and then just
some of these other projects you know
one of our employee uh employees who's
now our head of decentralization at the
foundation um Willie he was already
working on this other Dow called giveth
which was like a dow for good a dow for
for actually giving for charity and
finding a way to coordinate around that
so he had some ideas we'd have to learn
some things from there and really just
anything we saw across the D5 Spectrum
so it wasn't like we looked at like one
specific one and we're like we should
model ourselves off of that necessarily
as much as we saw this trend of these
def5 protocols and we saw the advantages
that they had as these decentralized
organizations so yeah those were kind of
some of our main Inspirations but we
also looked at like protocols themselves
I mean really ad Dow is not that far off
from an actual protocol like a Bitcoin
or ethereum in some ways they're that
similar the governance is a little bit
more explicit but there's more protocols
that are coming in there more explicit
you know we've also been very interested
in watching the cosmos ecosystem for a
while Cosmos networks even though
they're built as l1s really are kind of
dows on chain as well they have
governance built in usually or at least
they can have it they tend to vote on
things very much like a dow so we kind
of were watching all these things across
the Spectrum and they all kind of helped
inform us on what we thought was
possible with shape shift and the way we
wanted the way we wanted to go I also
think that the Dow tooling just got a
lot better like if we had tried to do
what we did even a year beforehand a lot
of the tools that we rely on for the
shape shift out just wouldn't have even
existed and we would have had to build a
bunch ourselves and that would have made
it a lot harder so we kind of came in in
my opinion at the right time where we
could we could basically go off of some
of these tools that were starting to
come about you know things like nosis
safes becoming much easier to use things
like snapshot you know allow gasless
voting so that people didn't have to
feel like they had to spend money every
time just to vote on governance which
would be a huge you know deterrent all
these things together just gave us kind
of a road map of how we wanted to build
this first iteration of the shape shift
Dow and then obviously let kind of
governance and the community take it
from there about how to evolve it so you
you mentioned Nosa safe and snapshot
when you were exploring what networks to
build your infrastructure on top of
you've mentioned a lot of interest in
the cosmos ecosystem but you know maybe
the majority of particip who are
engaging in Dows or defi or anything
that's like not buying hold of a
cryptocurrency are probably more likely
in the ethereum ecos system so what was
that kind of tradeoff that you guys were
having internally while you're having
these conversations do we build this
infrastructure on a widely used Network
despite the fact that like we need a
snapshot or were you guys you know on
the fence of whether to build this
infrastructure on like newer ecosystem
like I know Cosmos has been around for a
couple years but in the grand scheme of
things it's still kind of new so what
was like the thought process like on
which technology to build on top of yeah
um so we looked at that we so we had
actually launched the fox token that we
end up facing as the Dallas governance
token um years before originally it was
launched just as like a loyalty token um
that was rewarded to users for doing
various actions on shapeshift there
wasn't much of it out there it didn't
have much Market you know or anything
like that but it already existed so we
already had this fox token built we had
already had some ideas for it in the
past that we hadn't really executed on
for various reasons and we realized this
was a great time to move forward with
that where the shape shift out so it was
already existing on ethereum as an erc20
so I think we kind of had that path a
little bit set out and also one of our
goals was to
break one point or another even people
who may
not hugely into with eum today you know
something for eth or ether an year C20
or one of these things ethereum
transactions in the past were not not NE
to do this on ethereum and also there
was a huge momentum towards Dows on
ethereum and the things they were
building there and the tool sets so all
of that together it made sense to launch
at least the initial Fox token um and
all of our governance and our stuff on
ethereum it just kind of had the network
effect of where we were trying to go it
had a lot of our users it had a lot of
the people that were inspiring us in
def5 that we also air drop to but also
we're shape shift so we we're never
we've never been tied to any one chain
we've always had this multichain thesis
and our idea was yeah even if we start
with the token on ethereum it's totally
fine if we then expand it to other
chains so our goal is that fox fox is
already on multiple chains today it's
already been bridged to a few other ones
and we think over time that will
proliferate and the idea is Fox should
be able to exist on any chain the Dow
should be able to exist on any chain
that the community wants it to so it's
not like we tried to set this in motion
to be tied to ethereum as much as it was
the best way to go given all those
inputs at the time and you kind of broke
out a little bit through there so I just
want to uh reiterate this is what I
think you said that fox was already an
erc20 that shapeshift had launched years
prior and now that you'd had this token
you'd saw an opportunity and the
composability was there to kind of build
on top of and you also wanted to reward
early participants in the ethereum
ecosystem who also wanted to participate
in Dow likee modules and so that's why
you kind of just like started with the
fox token which you already had but it
was kind of a multi-prong sort of reinen
divize people for participating uh who
had already participated yeah that's
that's pretty much it so now you have
fox fox is um what's used to vote it's
what's used to to weigh your your
participation so what does the process
look like for individuals who want to
partake in um making a decision on a
proposal U maybe just high level uh
first before we start talking about the
workflows yeah so shapeshift has a
specific governance process that's been
set out by the community it's already
evolved a few times so it's always you
know somewhat subject to change by
governance itself but it basically
starts with if someone has a proposal or
an idea or something that they want to
uh get funded from the community or get
alignment from the community on they
start that you know they might talk a
little bit in our Discord you know it's
kind of where the community hangs out as
a starting point but eventually they'll
they'll post it as a form thread on our
Forum at form. shapes shift.com when
that happens we have what we call an
incubation stage and the idea should be
discussed for a minimum of three days on
the form once that happens and if there
seems to be strong you know good
sentiment towards it the person can move
it to what we call ideation phase which
is kind of like a signaling section
where people can basically just
acknowledge yes I want this to move
forward to a formal Vote or no I don't
that has to be a minimum again of about
three days I believe and then if it
passes both those thresholds and often
it'll take a little bit longer as
there's Community feedback and people
want to see changes and the author will
do it or they'll discuss eventually it
goes to snapshot for a formal vote and
with snapshot that's where the actual
fox voting happens you basically just
sign a message a gas
transaction and if it receives more Fox
votes you know more yes votes than no
and it reaches uh what we call our
Quorum which is about four million Fox
today then it'll pass and it'll get
executed whether that's funding of a
specific thing or it's a signal to the
community to March a certain direction
on the product or whatever it is to
really be almost about anything that's
the basics of the governance process
there's a lot more to that you know we
have a weekly governance call every week
so usually people are going through
governance we talk about these things
with Comm on the call sometimes we'll do
amas or you know specific calls in the
community to talk about questions about
a specific proposal that is going on and
let you know the author and the
community members interact and discuss
all of these kind of happen but the core
process is basically the kind of
discussion on the Forum in the two
phases incubation ideation and then the
formal snapshot vote which is when Fox
voters actually vote on it so all in all
the process usually takes in the range
of like about two weeks from start to
finish if you try to get a proposal
through quickly sometimes it'll be
longer just depending on discussion and
people going back and forth but that's
the basics of it and it's really cool
that like anyone can come and do that
and you don't even necessarily need Fox
to propose something to the community
you you know I think you need a 100 Fox
which is you know 30 bucks or whatever
at today's prices that you in order to
actually put up a proposal on Snapshot
but you can get the discussion going at
any time and you can put out ideas to
the community and find ways to interact
contribute that way and it's it's just
been really cool to see how we launched
like I think at this point you know
we're less than a year old still I think
we're about going on about nine months
this month but we've had over 70
proposals passed by the community in
that time so it's been very active like
there's rarely a week where there isn't
something that the community is talking
about and voting on so it's just been
awesome to watch during that time and
what do you think is your most valuable
forum for communication is it the shapes
shift uh form that people go online and
they make these proposals or do you
think that you find uh more of the value
is extracted from the kind of like
peer-to-peer real- time messages that
occur on Discord yeah it's hard to say I
would say it's it's really a bit of both
like the Discord is really valuable
because it's kind of where the you know
and this is the case for a lot of DS not
just shape shift but it's where the
community kind of hangs out so it's
where you have that synchronous
communication maybe you work on
something it's where the meetings happen
it's where people talk synchronously
about things but it's definitely more
informal it's kind of like you know the
big Dow like office slw waterer cooler
where people hang out and you know
discuss and work on things but that's
not necessarily good for like a formal
governance process so the Forum is much
better for like you know getting a
little more formal and you know no pun
intended and basically going through
like here's the expli you know the
specific explicits being able to do that
asynchronously giving people time to
read through an idea respond in their
own time the form's really good for that
because it keeps you know a thread of
all the discussion on that particular
topic which can be really hard to find
in Discord at times if you don't know
where to look or you're not part of a
specific discussion at the time so they
both serve their purpose um I wouldn't
necessarily say one is better than the
other they just they're good for
different things I think like if you're
getting new to the shape of community
and you just want to get up to speed on
like what's happening in governance the
best way to do that is to look at the
form look at snapshot and you can get a
sense at a high level but if you want to
know like what's brewing like what's
coming down the pipeline that hasn't
been posted on the Forum what does the
community care about then you kind of
need to hang out in the Discord and get
more of a sense of what people are
talking about on a daily basis and that
usually is the Genesis of how things get
onto the form so they're intimately
connected but they're they're good for
different things and when I take a
whenever I take a gander at what's going
on in the shape shift out Discord
there's a lot going on um you know you
guys didn't just uh decorti and slap
like a dow label on there are actual
what you guys call workflows which are
different
uh areas that are being like actually
developed so you have like coders and
developers not just people who traded on
shapeshift a couple years ago so what
are some of the the things that are
being voted on what are some of the
conversations being brought up what are
some of like the protocols or
applications or actual real world like
things that I as a user can get my hands
dirty with what are some of the things
that are being funded and being proposed
so yeah let's I'd say one of the main
areas that's talked about and has been
self-organized through the Dow since
Genesis is this idea of work streams and
so work streams are kind of like a group
that is formed to work on a specific
area of the de so we have you know a
product workstream an engineering
workstream an operations workstream a
security workstream you know a marketing
and growth workstream Etc so there's all
these various work streams that have
basically made a proposal to the Dow and
said something along the lines of I
should lead this work stream here's how
much you should fund me here's you
should basically elect me to be the
leader of this work stream here's what
my goals are going to be here's how I'm
going to do it and I will have a term of
six months basically to either show you
I've delivered on my goals or not and
I'm going to hire people into my work
stream and we're going to work on these
things together so like that's one of
the main ways that kind of work gets
done in the Dow is you know a work
stream gets elected they go through
funding Cycles the community reevaluates
if they think they're hitting their
goals and if they should get more
funding or increase their funding or you
know cut some of their funding or
whatever it is you know very kind of
similar to like company's budget Cycles
but the difference is that there's no
you know centralized Authority saying
you know cut this budget do this with
that budget it's really up to the
community and these people have to kind
of get elected as what we call
workstream leaders in order to do
anything with them that's been awesome
it's definitely been one of the
strengths of our Dow is that we have
these various work streams and then
alongside IDE that we also have these
various people that the either the you
know governance itself might put out
bounties or the work streams or other
people in the community might put out
bounties so we have a lot of other
contributors who are contributing to
work basically to the product to the
community whether even if they're not in
the work stream you know they might come
in and pick up a bounty they might live
off of bounties they might do a little
bit of both you know contributing in
this way to a workstream picking up
bounties over here and all of that's
been working really well together to the
point where like the engineering work
stream this has been one of my you know
things that I've been very proud of
seeing is that they cannot put out
bounties fast enough before developers
from the community come and just pick
them up so like if they put out 10
Bounties in a week all 10 will get done
that week and that's been incredible to
watch over the last three months because
that was not a foregone conclusion that
we would have that much interest in our
code base in this open source code and
getting people up to speed contributing
so that's a big part of it I mean other
things that happen pretty often in
governance are things around the Dow
Treasury what should we do with our
various uh with with our treasury should
we put it to work in defi how do we
allocate how do we get exposure to
stable coins to make sure the Dow has
enough uh you know to last through a bar
Market if we get into a really bad bar
Market things like this there's a lot of
discussions around that tokenomics of
the Dow is a big thing there's a
tokenomics work stream all these things
are all parts of governance and then
some of it's also just like signaling
stuff like the product workstream at one
point put up a govern's proposal saying
like here's our current road map like
does the community like this road map
and you know that gets voted on kind of
as a signal forward about whether the
community feels like we're going the
right direction or not or the product at
least the product work is going the
right direction or not so all those
things kind of get wrapped into
governance and all sorts of other things
you know funding on various budgets
addendums to those proposals when
something changes those are all pretty
common across the Dow yeah and I think
it's really just something of importance
to highlight that when shapeshift did
decorporcelain
a working platform where trading was
going on and individuals could use the
shapeshift uh beta trading platform so
you you have this interesting concept of
this already pre-existing product and
now you've taken away your corporate
model and you have people volunteer or
propose uh changes and they ask for
funding for that so were are you seeing
a lot of your former W2 employees are
IND indviduals who are picking up the
ball for these particular work streams
are you finding random anons from crypto
Twitter are getting involved who are the
types of individuals that are now
contributing to shapeshift and how has
it surprised you maybe yeah it's a great
question it's the answer is really it's
kind of all the above um so shape shift
I think was lucky or like we had a
really good core for our Dow and that we
were this company that operated for you
know nearly eight years before we
decentralized into a dow and so that did
me in that a lot of the people that you
know were incentivized to and wanted to
contribute um and and were familiar with
shapeshift were former W2 employees and
kind of helped us form like a nucleus of
The Da a nucleus of our culture but very
quickly we had other people join from
the community who are not former W2
employees and we've had devs join that
way we've had people on pretty much
every type of workstream operations
product Etc come in from the community
who we we didn't know and they started
as anons or maybe we got to know them
through Twitter or maybe someone
introduced a friend who was interested
in Dows or like all of that kind of
happened organically so at this point I
would say it's it's about half and half
probably even more less than that
actually because I think by last what I
heard is something like we've had nearly
a 100 contributors like you know just in
the last few months that have
contributed in some way and gotten paid
some way about half of those are
probably on work streams and about half
of those are uh various contributors you
know via bounties and other parts of our
ecosystem probably less than at this
point are former W2 shapes shift
employees there are certainly still a
good core nucleus of that but so many
people have showed up in the community
and some of our best contributors are
people that you know I I didn't know at
all a year you know less than a year ago
but just kind of show up and throw their
hat in the ring and say Hey I want to
contribute how can I help like every day
at this point in the Discord we see
people showing up being like hey I'm
super interested in this super cool how
can I help some of those people just say
that and you never hear from them again
and that's fine but some of those people
show up and they become you know very
regular active contributors you know all
the time so like a lot of people in our
marketing and Growth work stream came
from that portion people in engineering
people in operations and they're some of
our best contributors so it's really a
mix of all those things but like it's
one of the awesome parts of a dow is
like someone can just show up and start
helping like you don't need to apply for
a job you don't need to like give
someone your resume or even necessarily
tell us your real name you either just
contribute value or not and there's
pretty much opportunities for anyone no
matter what they still said it certainly
don't need to be an engineer although
those are always in high demand they
contribute so there's just so many
opportunities to do that and we see it
every day and I think within like a year
it'll be like 80% you know plus you know
our our people who've come from the
community and you know far less our
former W2 employees just because of the
amount of growth we'll have so yeah
that's kind of where we are today and
it's it's one of the coolest things
about working in a DA and one of the
things I love the most is just like you
never know who's going to show up and
help and it's just so awesome to see
help come from all corners of the globe
of people who just are really aligned
with the mission I mean that's another
cool thing about it is like when you
hire someone at a company there's always
this dance of like okay well they want
this much compensation do they actually
care about the company is it's just a
job for them no one really shows up for
a dow as just job or if they do they
it's really not going to last long I
mean that that was always kind of the
case even in crypto to be honest even as
company but it's very different in a
doubt like someone's here and
contributing every day they're there
because they care about it they're there
because they're actually passionate
about it they're interested in what the
Dow is doing otherwise they wouldn't
stick around and nothing's forcing them
to stick around like they're generally
not there for other reasons they're
there because they care so that's been
really awesome to just see that and the
type of people that brings wrapping up
because I know we both have a tight
deadline um I think one of the last
questions I want to ask you is what is
the best way to whether it's emotionally
or financially or whatever what's the
best way to invest back into your Dow
into your Dow's community so that this
thing can not only survive but Thrive as
well is it through the treasury is it
through the GMS every morning what is
it h it's funny with the GFS I just saw
a post on Twitter today actually that
someone measured the uh the GMS per like
Discord and the shapes shift da was like
number four or something of all the once
they measured of like amount of
GMS which was pretty hilarious
congrats yeah I like that yeah I think
the best way to get involved and
contribute is simply to well there's a
couple things I mean obviously you can
buy the fox token if you're interested
to be part of governance that helps the
Dow in having more interested you know
people that are token holders and voters
that's the easiest way probably in terms
of if you just want to throw a little
money at it but more importantly I think
is is if you want to contribute or you
want to get involved in the community or
just see what's going on you don't even
necessarily have to know you want to
contribute but maybe you just want to
learn about what's happening in the
community and then see if an opportunity
arises that's how a lot of people start
I think the best way is to Simply jump
into the Discord start hanging out in
the channels check out the form check
out the snapshot and what proposals are
going on and join a call or two you know
like we have a couple weekly calls that
are really popular that are really good
ways to get it you know my you know some
of my favorites are like our weekly
tokenomics tokenomics every Tuesday is
always one is always really awesome and
well attended and our weekly governance
call Thursday like if you just want to
get a highle sense of what's happening
in the Dow on on like a governance level
best way is to Simply join the Discord
check out the Forum join our governance
call you know spend an hour a week
listening along you get a really good
sense at that point and as you do this
you'll probably find other opportunities
you'll see people talking about things
that interest you and you'll be like hey
maybe I could help with that or someone
brought up this IDE you know thing and
they need help on this thing or they
need someone to write something or they
need someone to go talk to someone else
about Partnerships like this is
something I could do like you will
naturally find Opportunities if you just
kind of jump in and start being part of
the community that way and I've I've yet
to see someone who like didn't have
something to offer if they actually
wanted to contribute almost everybody
does it's just a matter of of getting a
feel for the community and figuring out
what the right way to go is for you
awesome and uh one last question this is
kind of a broad catchall but what does
the smart economy mean to you I've asked
this question question to many people
and there's never been the same answer
so what does Smart economy mean to
you oh man I don't know if I've ever
thought about that term that way the
smart economy I think a smart economy is
one that is ultimately is hopefully the
types of economies we're building in
crypto ones that are not fundamentally
governing C that are Global that our
community run and Community owned and
that hopefully benefit the people that
are actually part of that you know they
shouldn't just benefit a few people they
should benefit anyone who's part of that
economy and they should do so
productively with as little friction as
possible preferably among voluntary you
know Association and individuals who
want to be part of it voluntarily in a
peaceful fashion like that's ultimately
what's probably the smartest economy and
in some ways that's basically just a
free market economy so it's not that
different from that but like Dows and
crypto and centralization and the
internet itself us the ability to build
new types of economies that couldn't
have existed before um with far less
friction and far more inclusiveness with
from the global population no matter
where you live as long as you got
internet connection so to me that's at
least where the economies are going and
I guess what I would call a smart
economy John thank you so much for uh a
creating shape shift alongside the
co-founders uh for opening the rabbit
hole for me for sharing your time today
for all the great times we've gotten to
hang out in person it was really uh an
honor to be able to bring to bring you
on to the smart economy podcast and to
be able to share the really cool work
that you guys have been doing with the
shape shift Al I really appreciate the
time awesome thanks so much
Dylan well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to hear about the rich and
storied history that shapeshift has in
blockchain space and as communication is
an important aspect of governance it was
great to hear more about the process for
how the shapeshift community discusses
proposals and votes on them lastly I
found it fascinating to hear more about
the contributors to the shape shift Dow
and to learn that they're not all former
W2 employees but also new individuals
from across the internet with that I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo council member as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
we look forward to catching you next
time